In this video I'll explain how the NSX routers handle dynamic routing protocols.
So first off what is a dynamic routing protocol.
Well these allow routers to automatically exchange routing information.
So with static routing we can have numerous routers and we can have lots of different destinations that
traffic might be flowing and it can become really cumbersome if not impossible to manually maintain
that list of routing table entries.
So that's where dynamic routing protocols really come in.
Right.
They can automatically learn about routes from other routers they can heal themselves if some sort of
network failure occurs.
And there's another viable route dynamic routing protocols can discover that and reroute traffic down
the appropriate path.
So NSX supports two dynamic routing protocols OSPF and BGP.
So let's take a look at an example of static routing in action.
In this case router 1 is the only router in the picture and it knows all about the networks that it's
connected to because it's directly connected to them and that's how a router works.
If a router has an interface that's connected to some network it knows about that network and it adds
it to its routing table.
Now I've added another router to the mix router to and that router is connected to a different network
ten not one to network.
So as such no I need to somehow make Router one aware that if it wants to reach the 10.0 want to network
that traffic should flow out of this interface and towards this router.
So that's one static routing table entry that I need to make in router 1.
And I also need to make a static routing table entry and router to pointing back the other way.
And as I add more routers to my environment I have more paths more networks and more possibilities.
For example on router 3 I have the 10 dot 1.0 3.0 network now Router one can get to this network by
either going over a direct connection to router or 3.
We see that point to point connection right there or it's got other other options as well.
Right.
So could go this way it could go this way it could go this way.
It could go all sorts of different routes or there's even more possibilities than I just showed.
Now how do we select the correct route.
How do we automatically heal if one of those connections fails.
How do we reroute traffic over our remaining surviving connection.
And so you can see as your environment grows static routing very quickly becomes unmanageable and it
can't scale the way that we need it to.
So dynamic routing is the way to go to resolve these issues.
Here we see four routers Router one router to router 3 and router 4 and every router has its own routing
table essentially a list of networks and how to get to them.
So here router 2 and router 1 have formed a neighbor relationship.
And that means that router 2 is going to send Router one a copy of its routing table and now Router
one will know.
OK router 2 gives me access to this 10.0 want to network I can reach that network the router too.
I can also reach the 10 dot one dot for Network.
Now it might not be the most efficient way to get there.
I might have a more efficient path elsewhere but if that path fails now I have an alternative route
and thats the big benefit of dynamic routing and its ability to heal from failure.
So what does this mean.
Why do we have this peering relationship and why dont we just let the distributed logical router directly
former neighbor relationship with the edge.
Why do we need this control via well because the DLR is a distributed logical router its centrally managed
but there is a distributed logical outer kernel module running on many ESX hosts so they're not all
going to form a peer relationship with the edge and learn about these routing table updates.
We'll have the DLR control VM to essentially manage a dynamic routing table updates and so once the
DLR control VM establishes this routing peering relationship with the NSX edge now it will start to
exchange routing table entries.
And as the logical routing control VM learns about networks it can send those routing table updates
down to the distributed logical router kernel modules
so how does the distributed logical rodder control via get those updates to the kernel modules Well
it's going to utilize the NSX controller cluster.
Now if you think back to our NSX controller cluster video I talked about the fact that within the ESX
host there is something that runs called the user world agent and the user world agent is essentially
a boss that allows the NSX controller to talk to the ESX host.
Right.
So in this case lets kind of follow this through.
Lets say that there is some network that's reachable by this external router.
Right.
And so the external routers peering with the edge and the edge learns about this route and the agist
period with the control via And the logical routing control VM also learns about some route.
Now we need to get that routing table entry down to the distributed logical router kernel modules so
that they can have an updated routing table also including this information.
So the control VM will push those routing table updates to the NSX controller which will leverage the
user world agent to distribute those routing table updates down to all of the DLR kernel modules OK.
So let's take a couple of moments to talk about OSPF OSPF is a very common interior gateway routing
protocol and it uses a concept called areas.
So with OSPF routers that are in the same area will exchange routing information with each other and
they'll have a matching link state database.
So for example let's say that we want the distributed logical router to learn about routing updates
from the NSX.
That means that the DLR and the NSX Owch must form a neighbor relationship.
But before that can happen we need to configure and OSPF area.
So here's our OSPF area we've called that area 250.
And we also have to establish interfaces that are members of that area.
So we'll go into the distributed logical router will pick logical interfaces that are connected to the
X LAN five thousand three.
We'll go to the edge will pick the interface on the edge that are connected to that network and we will
specifically place those interfaces into OSPF area 250
and now neighbor relationships can be formed.
The logical routing control via And the NSX can become neighbors at this point.
So here we see areas zero.
This is our backbone area.
That's the NSX Adjt. connection to the external router and that's the area that's used if traffic needs
to flow outside of this particular OSPF area that we've defined here areas zero is always the area number
for the backbone area.
So now that the NSX and the DLR are both an area 250 they can form that neighbor relationship and the
neighbor relationship again is formed between the logical route and control VM and the NSX.
Know there are a few things you need to configure in order to make this happen.
We have to configure what's called the protocol address on the logical routing control via.
And the purpose of the protocol address is simply it's an address to identify the logical routing control
via to the NSX.
Every device that's participating in OSPF needs a router Id like this.
So that's the purpose of our IP address.
The deal our control VM is to simply give that virtual machine an identity that it can use to exchange
routing table updates with each
the edge will also become a neighbor with the external physical router allowing it to exchange routing
updates with that router.
And as routes are learned by the logical rodder control VM they'll get pushed down to the distributed
logical router kernel modules using the NSX controller cluster and it's user world agent one really
important thing to understand at this point.
The only routes that will be exchanged dynamically are those interfaces that we have specified are part
of an OSPF area.
So if we have VX sland logical interfaces connecting to a logical switch those networks are not advertised
by default and will never be learned by the OSPF routers.
The same goes for any static routes we may have configured in the DLR on the edge gateway if we've set
up static routes OSPF is not going to automatically learn about those static routes.
But what we can do is configure route redistribution to import these networks into OSPF and include
them in a routing table updates.
So again here we see our OSPF area 250 and the distributed the logical router and the NSX edge have
interfaces that have been configured as part of that area.
However the DLR also has interfaces connected to some other network that we're choosing not to advertise
at this point.
This is a directly connected network so because this is directly connected network the distributed logical
router will have a routing table entry specifying how to get to that network.
It's simply not going to inject to that routing table entry into OSPF unless we specify that it should
do so.
So what we can do is we can configure route redistribution and what route redistribution will do as
it will allow us to specify a target protocol.
So for example let's assume now that we decide hey we want to redistribute directly connected networks.
In that case OSPF is going to learn about this network and it's going to inject information about that
network into all of us.
So now the edge can become aware of that directly connected network that normally it wouldn't know about.
And because the edge now knows about that route.
The ads can actually communicate with the external router and make the external router aware of that
routing table entry as well.
So what happens if the logical routing control VM fails well essentially nothing as far as virtual machines
are concerned.
All of the real virtual machine traffic is flowing through the DLR kernel modules and the logical switches
and the NSX Sach.
But if the logical route of control VM fails there's no traffic that's actively flowing through that.
Right the logical route or control VM is in the control plane.
It's not in the data plan.
So if the logical routing control VM fails what fails along with it is routing table updates we're not
going to have that OSPF or potentially BGP period relationship anymore.
So as network changes occur the routing table of the distributed logical router will not be updated.
And one of the things that we can do is set up the DLR control VM in highly available mode and in that
case there will be two instances of this logical routing control virtual machine running on two different
ESX high hosts.
And that will give us some protection from failure there.
So a few facts to bear in mind when you're considering setting up routing protocols with that Isaak's
OSPF version 3 is not supported OSPF version 3 is specifically for IP version 6 and it's not supported
by the distributed logical router or the etch.
If there are certain networks that we do not want to redistribute that we do not want to advertise to
the outside world we can use route filtering to stop certain networks from being advertised.
Equal costs load balancing is supported and will take a much deeper look at that later on in this course.
I know we didn't talk about it much but the distributor logical rodder also supports it.
BGP and the NSX Hach can also be configured with BGP as well.
You can configure BGP and OSPF on the NSX if you want.
You can't do both on the distributed logical router so if you wanted to you could set up the edge to
peer with an external router using BGP and then the edge could peer with the DLR using OSPF if you want
to do that you have to manually configure all of your BGP neighbors.
So in review dynamic routing is used to automatically exchange routing information.
This allows our networks to become self learning self-healing and more scalable NSX supports OSPF and
BGP routing protocols.
If there is some change in the network our network is set to be converged when all routers become aware
of that change and agree on the updated topology of the network and with interior gateway protocols
we want a really fast convergence time.
We want that kind of fast self-healing if some change occurs.
The logical routing control VM is used for dynamic routing updates and it forms a neighbor relationship
with the NSX such as these routing table updates curr the distributed logical router receives them from
the NSX controller cluster via the user agent.
And then finally we learned about route redistribution and how it can be used to inject static or directly
connected networks into a routing protocol.